README.md, before:

# fsm-bar

## how to run in mathematica

before running, it's necessary to change the directory for the output.

- open `basic.rkt`, the CONFIGURATION is at the beginning:

- change the directory to smt like: "/Users/linhchi.nguyen/Dropbox/fsm-bar/run1/"
this directory will be append before the file name, it's better to append "" (nothing) so that the output is exported in the current directory

- then change the variables accordingly, for example: N 100, CYCLES 100000...

- then run the file `run-in-matha.nb` in mathematica (in that file, mathematica set directory as the current directory)

in general (and inside mathematica), the command to run is

```
raco test -s rund basic.rkt
```
or
```
racket -tm side.rkt
```

with -tm and no further specification, racket will evaluate the function `main defined inside the file side.rkt, raco will run the test module inside the file, (this may be necessary when there is not only one main module inside the file, for example, run in continual probability fashion or run in discount factor fashion)

### how to run in lab 1 computer:

- change the directory for the output into a dropbox folder
(ie smt like: "/Users/linhchi.nguyen/Dropbox/fsm-bar/run1/mean.png")

```
(require (file "/Users/linhchi.nguyen/Documents/fsm-bar/main.rkt"))

```

### how to run in disa lab computer:
- change directory for output:
"C:/Documents and Settings/linhchi.nguyen/My Documents/Dropbox/fsm-bar/run6/mean"

```
(require (file "R:/fsm-bar/main.rkt"))
```

## To do

| To do         | Date          | By    | Note |
| ------------- |:-------------:| ----- |:----:|
| spin off from sample-fsm2      | 7 Dec | chi | |
| change "automata.rkt" to fit bargaining game | 7 Dec | ||
| add classic automata | 8 Dec |||
| plot the number of types in each cycle | x | |
| pass test 1 and test 2 of RD | x | ||
| fix out-rank |x|||
| run across delta | 11 dec |||
| write a montecarlo |||hm|
| optimize code, now time is spent in match-up and rank | |||
| write acknowledgement | x |||
| test 3 passed | 28 dec | ||
| output to dropbox |x|||
| draw the new automata to check |x|||
| run in matha | x |||
| restructure code | 30 dec|||
| print simulation settings as title | x |||
| able to run across N, rounds, deltas | x |||
| two different methods of deltas | 9 jan | ||
| set states# = 100 | x |||
| fix a bug: in deltas, in the for loop, build-random-population in each i | x || see if it solves the flat simulations |
| merge module c & d, from now on, run raco test for each module test | x |||
| list the decision tree of an auto | x |||
| return the states + the payoff in each round | 14 jan || so we can see active states of two automaton in a match (in equilibrium)|
| walk through the workflow |x || pay attention to function vector-set!|
| write some func to investigate automaton |v || hmm, |
| change to no-gui to run on clusters@.. | x |||
| try ssh key | x |||
| back up the job description (which'd be sent to cluster) |x || next time just edit that file|
| only export data every 10 cycle (reduce data size) |x |||
| issue: high states -> lower periods -> maybe due to inefficient learning (not quite equilibrium). so if reduce states -> has to increase cycles. not quite because how does the inefficient periods come in stay (invade the population), there must be some mutation that mess up things | not quite || run the same combination of (cycle,states) w pd to see|
| run across deltas, pies, states# | 17 jan | | |
| investigate the automaton, but how? | || eh, plot some picture on accommodating index|
| the code is very messy now... (out mean each cycle, plot AI, add dir so that it can run on cluster | |||
| attempt to refactor the code so it looks like organised modules | 20 jan |||
| maybe initially, i should set only a smaller set of states to be connected | x||20% connected initially|
| test to see if you change the script, it messes up the simulation on cluster, because it shouldnt, the script should be loaded for one time at the begining the of the job |x || no it doesnt, the last time it happens bc YOU forget to modify the variables|
| what about the kind of learning speed in the probability sense that everybody has chance to learn | || ignore?|
| resurrect automata from data & analyse population state | 23 jan |||
| personality test (w itself, l m h) | 28 jan |||
|personality test for mixture | x|| there are cases that the test doesnt comprehend (third branch)|
| plot the personality test | ||||

### Personality test

```
                             _____________________
                            |how nice is it       |
                            |among its own kind?  |
                             ---------------------
                                      |
          ____________________________|__________________________
        |                             |                          |
________|_________              ______|_______             ______|______
100% (regarding                     > 50%                      <50%
the fair equi)                                             -------------
--------------------            --------------                   |
        |                             |                    ______V_______
________V_________              ______V_______             Highs or Lows 
accommodate Highs?             cooperate w Fair?           or complicated
------------------              --------------             --------------
        |                             |
 _______|_________              ______|________________
 |               |             |          |           |
 |               |             NO         |          YES
NO              YES          (Fair does   |         __V_______
(highs get       |           badly w it)  |        accommodate
<50% potential)  |             |          |        Highs?
  |              |           __V__      ALMOST     -----------
  |              |           Tough     (its tolerance     |
  |              |           -----     toward Fair        |
 _V_________    _V_________             increases)        |
|authentic |    exploit Lows?             |         ______V_________
|Fair      |    ------------            __V__       |               |
 ----------          |                 Bullyish     NO             YES
               ______V_______           Tough       (highs gets     |
               |            |          --------     <50% potential  |
              YES          NO                       |               |
          (get 50% as       |                       |             __V__
        highs potential)    |                     __V__            Lows
               |            |                     Bully           -----
         ______V_______     V                     -----
         |Accommodator|    nice
         --------------   Accommodator


```


# Acknowledgment

This is a customised version built upon the base code of Matthias Felleisen [here](https://github.com/mfelleisen/sample-fsm)

The initial code of this project received a lot of critical contribution by Hoang Minh Thang.

Along the way of the development of this project, the code benefits tremendously from discussions on racket mailing list [here](https://groups.google.com/forum/?hl=en-GB#!topic/racket-users/4o1goSwrLHA), IRC #racket [here](http://pastebin.com/sxrCnwRV) and StackExchange.

The file "csv.rkt" has external copyright condition which can be found in its own file.

Commit message:

working on plot char from data

README.md, after:

# fsm-bar

## how to run in mathematica

before running, it's necessary to change the directory for the output.

- open `basic.rkt`, the CONFIGURATION is at the beginning:

- change the directory to smt like: "/Users/linhchi.nguyen/Dropbox/fsm-bar/run1/"
this directory will be append before the file name, it's better to append "" (nothing) so that the output is exported in the current directory

- then change the variables accordingly, for example: N 100, CYCLES 100000...

- then run the file `run-in-matha.nb` in mathematica (in that file, mathematica set directory as the current directory)

in general (and inside mathematica), the command to run is

```
raco test -s rund basic.rkt
```
or
```
racket -tm side.rkt
```

with -tm and no further specification, racket will evaluate the function `main defined inside the file side.rkt, raco will run the test module inside the file, (this may be necessary when there is not only one main module inside the file, for example, run in continual probability fashion or run in discount factor fashion)

### how to run in lab 1 computer:

- change the directory for the output into a dropbox folder
(ie smt like: "/Users/linhchi.nguyen/Dropbox/fsm-bar/run1/mean.png")

```
(require (file "/Users/linhchi.nguyen/Documents/fsm-bar/main.rkt"))

```

### how to run in disa lab computer:
- change directory for output:
"C:/Documents and Settings/linhchi.nguyen/My Documents/Dropbox/fsm-bar/run6/mean"

```
(require (file "R:/fsm-bar/main.rkt"))
```

## To do

| To do         | Date          | By    | Note |
| ------------- |:-------------:| ----- |:----:|
| spin off from sample-fsm2      | 7 Dec | chi | |
| change "automata.rkt" to fit bargaining game | 7 Dec | ||
| add classic automata | 8 Dec |||
| plot the number of types in each cycle | x | |
| pass test 1 and test 2 of RD | x | ||
| fix out-rank |x|||
| run across delta | 11 dec |||
| write a montecarlo |||hm|
| optimize code, now time is spent in match-up and rank | |||
| write acknowledgement | x |||
| test 3 passed | 28 dec | ||
| output to dropbox |x|||
| draw the new automata to check |x|||
| run in matha | x |||
| restructure code | 30 dec|||
| print simulation settings as title | x |||
| able to run across N, rounds, deltas | x |||
| two different methods of deltas | 9 jan | ||
| set states# = 100 | x |||
| fix a bug: in deltas, in the for loop, build-random-population in each i | x || see if it solves the flat simulations |
| merge module c & d, from now on, run raco test for each module test | x |||
| list the decision tree of an auto | x |||
| return the states + the payoff in each round | 14 jan || so we can see active states of two automaton in a match (in equilibrium)|
| walk through the workflow |x || pay attention to function vector-set!|
| write some func to investigate automaton |v || hmm, |
| change to no-gui to run on clusters@.. | x |||
| try ssh key | x |||
| back up the job description (which'd be sent to cluster) |x || next time just edit that file|
| only export data every 10 cycle (reduce data size) |x |||
| issue: high states -> lower periods -> maybe due to inefficient learning (not quite equilibrium). so if reduce states -> has to increase cycles. not quite because how does the inefficient periods come in stay (invade the population), there must be some mutation that mess up things | not quite || run the same combination of (cycle,states) w pd to see|
| run across deltas, pies, states# | 17 jan | | |
| investigate the automaton, but how? | || eh, plot some picture on accommodating index|
| the code is very messy now... (out mean each cycle, plot AI, add dir so that it can run on cluster | |||
| attempt to refactor the code so it looks like organised modules | 20 jan |||
| maybe initially, i should set only a smaller set of states to be connected | x||20% connected initially|
| test to see if you change the script, it messes up the simulation on cluster, because it shouldnt, the script should be loaded for one time at the begining the of the job |x || no it doesnt, the last time it happens bc YOU forget to modify the variables|
| what about the kind of learning speed in the probability sense that everybody has chance to learn | || ignore?|
| resurrect automata from data & analyse population state | 23 jan |||
| personality test (w itself, l m h) | 28 jan |||
|personality test for mixture | x|| there are cases that the test doesnt comprehend (third branch)|
| plot the personality test | ||||
|plot simulation test from data ||||
|see the error file for rund.pbs||||

### Personality test

```
                             _____________________
                            |how nice is it       |
                            |among its own kind?  |
                             ---------------------
                                      |
          ____________________________|__________________________
        |                             |                          |
________|_________              ______|_______             ______|______
100% (regarding                     > 50%                      <50%
the fair equi)                                             -------------
--------------------            --------------                   |
        |                             |                    ______V_______
________V_________              ______V_______             Highs or Lows 
accommodate Highs?             cooperate w Fair?           or complicated
------------------              --------------             --------------
        |                             |
 _______|_________              ______|________________
 |               |             |          |           |
 |               |             NO         |          YES
NO              YES          (Fair does   |         __V_______
(highs get       |           badly w it)  |        accommodate
<50% potential)  |             |          |        Highs?
  |              |           __V__      ALMOST     -----------
  |              |           Tough     (its tolerance     |
  |              |           -----     toward Fair        |
 _V_________    _V_________             increases)        |
|authentic |    exploit Lows?             |         ______V_________
|Fair      |    ------------            __V__       |               |
 ----------          |                 Bullyish     NO             YES
               ______V_______           Tough       (highs gets     |
               |            |          --------     <50% potential  |
              YES          NO                       |               |
          (get 50% as       |                       |             __V__
        highs potential)    |                     __V__            Lows
               |            |                     Bully           -----
         ______V_______     V                     -----
         |Accommodator|    nice
         --------------   Accommodator


```


# Acknowledgment

This is a customised version built upon the base code of Matthias Felleisen [here](https://github.com/mfelleisen/sample-fsm)

The initial code of this project received a lot of critical contribution by Hoang Minh Thang.

Along the way of the development of this project, the code benefits tremendously from discussions on racket mailing list [here](https://groups.google.com/forum/?hl=en-GB#!topic/racket-users/4o1goSwrLHA), IRC #racket [here](http://pastebin.com/sxrCnwRV) and StackExchange.

The file "csv.rkt" has external copyright condition which can be found in its own file.
